How well an interface aligns with the cultural values, symbols, behaviors and expectation of its users. The system should match between system and the real world (Aldrees & Gračanin, 2021). Which leans on the idea of [[Heuristics]] that they are not culturally neutral. Users from different cultural backgrounds may expect the system to function differently. Understanding the differences within cultural mental models is crucial when designing interfaces to be used internationally or for a culture that differs from the developers. The developers must ensure that their [[Visual hierarchy]] matches the intended culture. 
For instance English readers scan left-to-right and Arabic readers scan right-to-left. If the interface does not adapt its layout to fit these needs it can be disorientating (Sadowski & Zimmermann, 2019). 
Color can also have different meaning to different cultures. Red signifies error in western cultures but can symbolize luck or prosperity in parts of Asia. 
Regarding how language changes amongst different cultures it is important to use culturally relevant and localized terminology. Direct translation of words across languages is often ineffective because meaning is context-dependent, a term may lose its meaning when removed from its cultural frame of reference. The system has to speak the user's world (Norman, 1988)
## **References**
- Aldrees, A., & Gračanin, D. (2021). _Cultural usability of e-government portals: A comparative analysis of job-seeking web portals between Saudi Arabia and the United States._ In M. M. Soares, E. Rosenzweig, & A. Marcus (Eds.), _Design, User Experience, and Usability: Design for Diversity, Well-being, and Social Development_ (pp. 3–17). Springer. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-78224-5_1]
- Norman, D. A. (1983). _Design rules based on analyses of human error_. _Communications of the ACM, 26_(4), 254–258. https://doi.org/10.1145/2163.358092
- Sadowski, C., & Zimmermann, T. (Eds.). (2019). _Rethinking productivity in software engineering._ Apress. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4842-4221-6]